HIPPO Merged 10-Second Meteorology, Atmospheric Chemistry, and Aerosol Data
https://data.eol.ucar.edu/dataset/112.123

Summary
This data set provides the merged 10-second data product of meteorological,
atmospheric chemistry, and aerosol measurements from all Missions, 1 through
5, of the HIAPER Pole-to-Pole Observations (HIPPO) study of carbon cycle and
greenhouse gases. The Missions took place from January of 2009 to September
2011. All of the data are provide in one space-delimited format ASCII file.
The 10-second merged data product was derived by combining the NSF/NCAR GV
aircraft navigation and atmospheric structure parameters for position, time,
temperature, pressure, wind speed, etc., reported at 1-second frequency, with
meteorological, atmospheric chemistry and aerosol measurements made by several
teams of investigators on a common time and position basis. Investigators
reported most continuously measured parameters at a 1-second interval. The 1
second measurements were aggregated with a median filter to 10 seconds. The
fast-sample GC and whole air sample measurements reported at the greater than
10 second intervals (15-120 seconds including processing time) were aggregated
to the most representative 10 second sample interval. A supplementary file is
provided with this product that summarizes the completeness of the reported
data values (HIPPO_10s_meta_summary.tbl). The completeness entries are the
number of non-missing observations for each species in the main data file for
each mission and in total. The data are provided in one space-delimited format
ASCII file. Note that EOL Version 1.0 corresponds to R. 20121129 previously
served by ORNL.

Identifiers
 * Local archive identifier: 112.123
 * doi:10.3334/CDIAC/HIPPO_010
   https://doi.org/10.3334/CDIAC/HIPPO_010

Versions
  1.0: EOL Version 1.0 corresponds to R. 20121129 previously served by ORNL.

Citation
 Wofsy, S., et al. 2017. HIPPO Merged 10-Second Meteorology, Atmospheric
 Chemistry, and Aerosol Data. Version 1.0. UCAR/NCAR - Earth Observing
 Laboratory. https://doi.org/10.3334/CDIAC/HIPPO_010 Accessed 17 Apr 2024.

Additional citation styles can be generated by entering the DOI
at CrossCite (https://citation.crosscite.org/).

Acknowledgement
In addition to the citation reference and any other acknowledgements,
please acknowledge NCAR/EOL in your publications with text such as:

  Data provided by NCAR/EOL under the sponsorship of
  the National Science Foundation.
  https://data.eol.ucar.edu/

Related projects
 * HIPPO4: HIAPER Pole to Pole Observations 4 (HIPPO-4)
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/HIPPO4
 * HIPPO5: HIAPER Pole to Pole Observations 5 (HIPPO-5)
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/HIPPO5
 * HIPPO3: HIAPER Pole to Pole Observations 3 (HIPPO-3)
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/HIPPO3
 * HIPPO2: HIAPER Pole to Pole Observations 2 (HIPPO-2)
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/HIPPO2
 * HIPPO: HIAPER Pole to Pole Observations 1 (HIPPO-1)
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/HIPPO

Additional information
 * Spatial Type: point
 * Frequency: 10 second
 * Language: English

Categories
 * Aerosols
 * Aircraft
 * Chemistry

Platforms
 * NSF/NCAR GV HIAPER

Instruments
 * GPS Receivers
 * PMS - Particle Measuring System
 * Quantum Cascade Laser Spectrometer - QCLS
 * UCATS-GC - Unmanned Chromatograph Airborne System for Atmospheric Trace Species - Gas Chromatography

GCMD Science Keywords
 * EARTH SCIENCE > ATMOSPHERE > AEROSOLS > NITRATE PARTICLES
 * EARTH SCIENCE > ATMOSPHERE > ATMOSPHERIC CHEMISTRY > CARBON AND HYDROCARBON COMPOUNDS > NON-METHANE HYDROCARBONS/VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUNDS
 * EARTH SCIENCE > ATMOSPHERE > ATMOSPHERIC CHEMISTRY > NITROGEN COMPOUNDS > NITROUS OXIDE
 * EARTH SCIENCE > ATMOSPHERE > ATMOSPHERIC CHEMISTRY > CARBON AND HYDROCARBON COMPOUNDS > ATMOSPHERIC CARBON MONOXIDE
 * EARTH SCIENCE > ATMOSPHERE > ATMOSPHERIC CHEMISTRY > OXYGEN COMPOUNDS > ATMOSPHERIC OZONE
 * EARTH SCIENCE > ATMOSPHERE > ATMOSPHERIC WINDS > UPPER LEVEL WINDS > U/V WIND COMPONENTS
 * EARTH SCIENCE > ATMOSPHERE > ATMOSPHERIC CHEMISTRY > HALOCARBONS AND HALOGENS > CHLOROFLUOROCARBONS
 * EARTH SCIENCE > ATMOSPHERE > ATMOSPHERIC WATER VAPOR > WATER VAPOR INDICATORS > HUMIDITY > RELATIVE HUMIDITY
 * EARTH SCIENCE > ATMOSPHERE > ATMOSPHERIC CHEMISTRY > OXYGEN COMPOUNDS > MOLECULAR OXYGEN
 * EARTH SCIENCE > ATMOSPHERE > ATMOSPHERIC CHEMISTRY > HYDROGEN COMPOUNDS > MOLECULAR HYDROGEN
 * EARTH SCIENCE > ATMOSPHERE > CLOUDS > CLOUD MICROPHYSICS > CLOUD LIQUID WATER/ICE
 * EARTH SCIENCE > ATMOSPHERE > ATMOSPHERIC TEMPERATURE > UPPER AIR TEMPERATURE
 * EARTH SCIENCE > ATMOSPHERE > AIR QUALITY > PARTICULATES
 * EARTH SCIENCE > ATMOSPHERE > ATMOSPHERIC CHEMISTRY > CARBON AND HYDROCARBON COMPOUNDS > ATMOSPHERIC CARBON DIOXIDE
 * EARTH SCIENCE > ATMOSPHERE > ATMOSPHERIC TEMPERATURE > UPPER AIR TEMPERATURE > DEW POINT TEMPERATURE
 * EARTH SCIENCE > ATMOSPHERE > ATMOSPHERIC WINDS > WIND DYNAMICS > VERTICAL WIND VELOCITY/SPEED
 * EARTH SCIENCE > ATMOSPHERE > ATMOSPHERIC CHEMISTRY > CARBON AND HYDROCARBON COMPOUNDS > METHANE
 * EARTH SCIENCE > ATMOSPHERE > ATMOSPHERIC CHEMISTRY > NITROGEN COMPOUNDS > Peroxyacyl Nitrate
 * EARTH SCIENCE > ATMOSPHERE > AEROSOLS > ORGANIC PARTICLES
 * EARTH SCIENCE > ATMOSPHERE > ATMOSPHERIC WATER VAPOR > WATER VAPOR INDICATORS > DEW POINT TEMPERATURE
 * EARTH SCIENCE > ATMOSPHERE > ATMOSPHERIC WATER VAPOR > WATER VAPOR INDICATORS > HUMIDITY > HUMIDITY MIXING RATIO

Documentation
 * HIPPO_10s_meta_summary.tbl [4 KiB]
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/file/download/530EF0357F47D/HIPPO_10s_meta_summary.tbl
 * HIPPO_Merged_10-second_data_dictionary.xls [114 KiB]
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/file/download/530EF035954C4/HIPPO_Merged_10-second_data_dictionary.xls
 * HIPPO_merged_10_sec_users_guide_20121130_B_0-112-123_updated_citation.pdf [1275 KiB]
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/file/download/530EF03C71FBB/HIPPO_merged_10_sec_users_guide_20121130_B_0-112-123_updated_citation.pdf

Restrictions
 * EULA: fair-use.html [2 KiB]
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/file/download/530EF035955D4/fair-use.html

Related links
 * homepage: EOL HIPPO Overview page
   https://www.eol.ucar.edu/field_projects/hippo
 * homepage: HIPPO-4 Project Homepage
   https://www.eol.ucar.edu/field_projects/hippo-4
 * homepage: HIPPO 5 Home Page
   http://data.eol.ucar.edu/master_list/?project=HIPPO-5
 * homepage: HIPPO-2 Project Homepage
   https://www.eol.ucar.edu/field_projects/hippo-2
 * info: HIPPO Data Policy
   https://www.eol.ucar.edu/sites/default/files/files_live/private/HIPPO_Full_Data_Policy_lah_20170915_1.pdf
 * homepage: HIPPO-3 Project Page
   https://www.eol.ucar.edu/field_projects/hippo-3
 * info: HIPPO 5 Missions
   https://catalog.eol.ucar.edu/hippo5/missions/missions.html
 * info: HIPPO-2 Missions
   https://catalog.eol.ucar.edu/hippo2/missions/missions.html
 * info: HIPPO-4 Missions
   https://catalog.eol.ucar.edu/hippo4/missions/missions.html
 * info: HIPPO-3 Missions
   https://catalog.eol.ucar.edu/hippo3/missions/missions.html
 * info: HIPPO-1 Project Missions
   https://catalog.eol.ucar.edu/hippo/missions/missions.html
 * homepage: HIPPO-1 Project Page
   https://www.eol.ucar.edu/field_projects/hippo-1

Temporal coverage
 * Begin datetime: 2009-01-07 00:00:00 
 * End datetime: 2011-09-15 23:59:00 

Spatial coverage
 * Maximum (North) Latitude: 85.00
 * Minimum (South) Latitude: -65.00
 * Minimum (West) Longitude: -170.00
 * Maximum (East) Longitude: -80.00

Primary contact information
 * pointOfContact: EOL Data Support <datahelp@eol.ucar.edu>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/1

Additional contact information
 * author: Steven C. Wofsy <swofsy@seas.harvard.edu>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/814
 * author: Bruce Daube <bdaube@seas.harvard.edu>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2230
 * author: Rodrigo Jimenez-Pizarro <rjimenezpizarro@gmail.com>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2299
 * author: Eric Kort <eakort@umich.edu>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2231
 * author: Jasna V. Pittman <jvpittman@gmail.com>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2307
 * author: Sunyoung Park <sparky@knu.ac.kr>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2304
 * author: Roisin Commane <rcommane@seas.harvard.edu>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2289
 * author: Bin Xiang <binxiang@gmail.com>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2316
 * author: Greg Santoni <gsantoni@gmail.com>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2309
 * author: Daniel J. Jacob <djacob@fas.harvard.edu>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2298
 * author: Jenny A. Fisher <jennyf@uow.edu.au>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2319
 * author: Christopher A. Pickett-Heaps <christopher.pickett-heaps@csiro.au>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2306
 * author: Huiqun Wang <hwang@cfa.harvard.edu>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2312
 * author: Kevin J. Wecht <kevin.wecht@gmail.com>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2315
 * author: Qiaoqiao Wang <wqq726@gmail.com>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2313
 * author: Britton B. Stephens <stephens@ucar.edu>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/971
 * author: Stephen R. Shertz <shertz@ucar.edu>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2310
 * author: Andrew Watt <watt@ucar.edu>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2236
 * author: Pavel Romashkin <pavel@ucar.edu>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/696
 * author: Teresa Campos <campos@ucar.edu>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/238
 * author: Julie Haggerty <haggerty@ucar.edu>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/822
 * author: William A. Cooper <cooperw@ucar.edu>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2290
 * author: David C. Rogers <dcrogers@ucar.edu>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/723
 * author: Stuart Beaton <beaton@ucar.edu>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/721
 * author: Roger Hendershot <rogerh@ucar.edu>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2297
 * author: James W. Elkins <james.w.elkins@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2293
 * author: David W. Fahey <david.w.fahey@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2294
 * author: Ru-Shan Gao <RuShan.Gao@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/720
 * author: Joshua P. Schwarz <joshua.p.schwarz@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/1148
 * author: Fred Moore <Fred.Moore@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/1596
 * author: Stephen A. Montzka <stephen.a.montzka@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/1150
 * author: Anne E. Perring <anne.perring@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2305
 * author: Dale Hurst <Dale.Hurst@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/824
 * author: Benjamin R. Miller <ben.r.miller@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2301
 * author: Colm Sweeney <colm.sweeney@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2082
 * author: Samuel J. Oltmans <Samuel.J.Oltmans@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2303
 * author: Eric J. Hintsa <eric.j.hintsa@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/1151
 * author: David Nance <david.nance@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2302
 * author: Geoff S. Dutton <geoff.dutton@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2292
 * author: Laurel A. Watts <laurel.a.watts@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2314
 * author: J. Ryan Spackman <ryan.spackman@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2311
 * author: Karen H. Rosenlof <karen.h.rosenlof@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2308
 * author: Eric Ray <eric.ray@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/1149
 * author: Bradley Hall <bradley.hall@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2296
 * author: Mark Zondlo <mzondlo@princeton.edu>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/1608
 * author: Minghui Diao <minghui.diao@sjsu.edu>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2291
 * author: Ralph F. Keeling <rkeeling@ucsd.edu>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/1604
 * author: Jonathan Bent <jonathan.bent@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2235
 * author: Elliot Atlas <eatlas@miami.edu>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/1603
 * author: Richard Lueb <lueb@ucar.edu>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2300
 * author: Michael J. Mahoney (deceased)
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/1147

Alternate metadata formats
 * DataCite: https://data.eol.ucar.edu/dataset/112.123?format=datacite
 * ISO/TC 211: https://data.eol.ucar.edu/dataset/112.123?format=isotc211
